I got a question on patreon about video
games why would people want my opinion
on video games I'm pretty sure if you go
to Google right now and type in opinion
about video games I think they're at
least five or six guys in the Internet
already working in that Lane think on
YouTube if you speak reporter opinions
about video games I think you're gonna
find a few people volunteering to fill
this this void this niche in your life
but I understand the question on patreon
it was an intelligent question was
asking for intelligent reasons and I
have had a question from no less a voice
on YouTube than vegan gains himself
vegan gains wrote to me and couple
months ago I think saying that I should
re-evaluate my stance on video games he
said look video games are not just Sonic
the Hedgehog anymore
whatever that means he said they're now
an in-depth you know plot driven
narrative lee complex art form like
cinema and that therefore I should
change what I've said with them and I
wrote back you know without giving any
particularly deep thought to it and said
you know if I knew someone who spent 40
hours a month watching cinema I'd say
you have a you of a serious problem I
said I don't you know I don't have a
different bar for cinema than I do for
video games and you know 40 hours a
month that's not that much time to spend
plenty of them sorry in terms of what's
what's normal today a lot of the the
so-called waiting by the high-priced
release titles you know not cheap idioms
they'll say on the box how many hours of
playtime they have and sometimes it's 40
hours and 50 hours and 80 hours and
people on the internet will commonly
boast they played the game through twice
so you know it was a forty hour game
that they played it for 80 hours I've
seen to some of the union's actually
have a clock maybe when you start up and
quit for how many hours you spent
playing the game in total so you know
you know you've wasted a hundred hours
of your life or something playing this
game but no I wouldn't I wouldn't let a
cinephile off easily I wouldn't let us
in a stuff easily if okay this was
actually comes back to the particular
question I was asked on on page
I mentioned it in one of my dating
advice videos in passing I was like look
unless you're someone who works inside
the video game industry yourself blah
blah blah and the patreon supporter was
interested in challenging than saying
hey wait how is it really different if
you're an industry so if you make video
games instead of just if you produce
them instead of just consuming them
right now
and I would say the same about cinema if
I knew someone who was watching a
hundred and twenty hours of movies a
week well if that's your profession if
that's your career for 30 hours a month
anyway if someone's really devoting a
lot of time to just watching cinema
back-to-back you know what I mean
watching one film after another well if
that is your career if that's the
meaning of life you if that's how you
make the world a better place is by
making your own films or playing some
role in the film is for me or a film
editor or something okay
you know maybe it's so problematic maybe
it's still a problem if you know someone
who spends all their time doing tax
returns maybe that's a bomb - you know I
mean I'm not like saying oh just because
it's your job now it's not ethical issue
it's nothing we have to think about or
even a strategic issue you know even a
intellectual issue quality of life issue
you know but for me yes there is a
difference between being somewhat
employed in the video game industry
working in a creative capacity creating
video games again maybe your way of
making the world a better place however
small or over large you may be an artist
in the beauty ministry or a programmer
or someone or a musician I know they
they employ all those people sure to me
that is different in exactly the same
way that being a filmmaker is different
from merely being a film a film viewer
sure
and I think this links to something else
was discussed in patreon it comes up all
the time the conclusion to my 30 minute
video about Chiang Mai Thailand which is
just posted or reposted a couple days
ago in just the last couple of minutes
I say look these young people in Chiang
Mai Thailand who think they're young and
hip and on permanent vacation some of
them not all of them but many of them
look down their noses at the old people
who are there who are retired and I say
at the end of that video I challenge
them I say well look if you're in your
20s and you're already retired why do
you think you're
then are better than someone who maybe
worked for 40 years of their life and is
now retired me you're both there on
permanent vacation worth wasting your
lives if it mean this old person who's
retired there maybe they at least had
one stage of their lives where they were
really motivated to make the world a
better place where they were really
motivated to accomplish something when
they had some ambition deep or shallow
great or small you know what I mean why
don't you have that ambition now when
you're in your 20s why are you on
vacation and you know you can ask that
about people who are you know wasting
their time
in Chiang Mai Thailand but you can also
ask it about young men who are sitting
on the couch playing video games for
hundreds of hours per year I think
that's an important question worth
asking and yes
apropos vegan gains this question I
would ask exactly the same question of a
young man who's spending hundreds of
hours watching movies instead of video
games there's no difference for me there
or hundreds of hours playing billiards
playing pool playing snooker it's the
same problem and I'd mentioned as a
civilization before video games were
ever invented we did have the same
problems with addiction to a stack of
playing cards you know I did that
research on the massacre mass murder out
on the eastern part of the border
between Russia and China and Japan
fascinating essay by the way Nicolay
Visconti murder massacre you know in the
age of that book it mentions that the
man in the village during winter because
well during which would they be snowed
in and they would they be snowed in and
they'd gamble for three days straight
you know with who late put logs on the
fire and they'd play poker until you
know till the snow had cleared or
whatever bestowed in gambling seminars
so I mean this element of human nature
has always existed
it doesn't just rely on technology but
again from my perspective yeah I'm gonna
judge I'm gonna judge you whether you're
my own son or my own daughter or my own
brother or whatever yes if you're
spending hundreds of hours whether it's
playing video games or playing card
games playing snooker or billiards or
watching movies watching sports
sure absolutely watching sports if you
watch two football games in one day it's
most of your day it eats up most of it
and that's and it's most of your human
potential it's most of your potentials
being whether you want to assess the
potential through curiosity through
learning something new or through
ambition trying to make the world a
better place trying to do something
anything you know I think that's a
question you know the seriousness of
which you may fightin some people we're
just talking about this a lot of people
at our generation in our culture they
don't want to have any friends around
who judge them they don't want to have a
friend who's gonna tell them man you're
really slipping up you're playing video
games for hundreds of hours or if it's
not video games you're watching sports
demands dude you have to really think
about what you're doing with your life
short term long term oh that's another
aspect of it I think of a lot of people
are in generation on some level they are
ashamed even if it's just that they're
ashamed that they're squandering their
own potential like they don't regard
video games as inherently shameful and I
would agree with that that I don't
regard a deck of cards as inherently
shameful if you owned a deck of cards I
don't like you know the devil the deck
of cards is not shameful it's spending
hundreds of hours playing cards or
losing hundreds of dollars you know
wasting thousands of dollars can't sure
that's another another issue but just
talking about time energy but I think a
lot of people in our generation they
have a sense of squandering their human
potential what they could be
accomplishing in so many fields and
again including just curiosity just you
know I say this is my girlfriend you
know we're out walking and I'm thinking
you know there's this book I was meaning
to read a couple years ago and haven't
gotten around to reading it I should
look up and go just stuff and you know
that kind of curiosity can lead to an
inform and enrich your other ambitions
like and it can enrich your relation
with your girlfriend and it could make
you a better person or maybe you get
that book and you decided as a piece of
crap you throw out the garbage in some
other books some other interest some
other language something else you you do
with your time but yeah I think part of
the fragility of people our age you only
stay with a click of friends they made
in high school and they really stay
closed off it's because a lot of what
they're doing with their time loke
they're they're ashamed of and they're
ashamed on and it does cut deep it's all
the way deep because you're not just
changeable you with your time you're
ashamed of you know who you are who
you're going to become who you are in
the future
and some residual sense of who you could
have been